README.md, before:

### Loom Native SDK - Mobile App and Game Development

Welcome to the Loom Native SDK!  This repository contains the full source code of the Loom mobile technology.  

The Loom development team is actively building Loom, right here, with the work available in [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans)'s firehose builds within minutes!  

### [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans) 

We realize not everyone is an experienced C/C++ programmer with working native toolchains and a need to extend Loom at a low level.  We also use Loom to create applications, so we built Loom Turbo.

##### If you're interested in accelerated development using industry standard scripting and amazing live reload workflow, you want [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans).

### Platforms

Loom currently runs on Android, iOS, Windows, OSX, Linux, and Ouya

### License

The Loom SDK is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) 

There are a number of other licenses used which can be viewed in the LICENSE_THIRDPARTY file.  We have been very careful in selecting no-nonsense licenses and the Loom Native SDK contains no traces of proprietary or copyleft licenses.  

### Community

http://www.loomsdk.com/community 

### Build Instructions

Please see the individual Readme files for platform specific build instructions

Commit message:

JME-UPDATEREADME: Updating generate build instructions in root read me

README.md, after:

### Loom Native SDK - Mobile App and Game Development

Welcome to the Loom Native SDK!  This repository contains the full source code of the Loom mobile technology.  

The Loom development team is actively building Loom, right here, with the work available in [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans)'s firehose builds within minutes!  

### [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans) 

We realize not everyone is an experienced C/C++ programmer with working native toolchains and a need to extend Loom at a low level.  We also use Loom to create applications, so we built Loom Turbo.

##### If you're interested in accelerated development using industry standard scripting and amazing live reload workflow, you want [Loom Turbo](http://www.loomsdk.com/plans).

### Platforms

Loom currently runs on Android, iOS, Windows, OSX, Linux, and Ouya

### License

The Loom SDK is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) 

There are a number of other licenses used which can be viewed in the LICENSE_THIRDPARTY file.  We have been very careful in selecting no-nonsense licenses and the Loom Native SDK contains no traces of proprietary or copyleft licenses.  

### Community

http://www.loomsdk.com/community 

### Build Instructions

The build system is setup to generate a "dev" sdk for use with the Loom command line interface (cli).

Firstly, building Loom from the native source code requires having [Rake](http://rake.rubyforge.org) & [CMake](http://www.cmake.org) installed and on your path.

There are 2 important rake commands

**rake deploy:free_sdk** 

This will build and deploy a **OSX** or **Windows** dev sdk based on your host OS.

**rake deploy:sdk** 

This will build and deploy a full dev sdk with support for **Windows/Android** or **OSX/iOS/Android** depending on your host OS.

Once successfuly compiled and deployed, change directory to yourproject and issue this Loom CLI command:

**loom use dev**

You'll now be developing with your custom Loom build!

For more information, please see the individual Readme files for platform specific setup instructions
